# SeniorShield

In the United States, over 12 million senior citizens (people over the age of 65) live in their homes alone and 4.3 million of these individuals face some sort of cognitive deficiency or limitation. A serious issue exists because of this: cognitively limited individuals, typically senior citizens, oftentimes have difficulty identifying visitors who come to their homes unannounced. This could worry caregivers who truly don’t know whom the seniors might let into the house. There have been many horrible examples that really show the danger of this, ranging from theft to even, sadly, death. This issue is one that deeply impacts some of our own members and we felt that HackTJ would be a great opportunity to come together, use our innovative minds, and create something that could really address this problem that has been slowly getting out of control. This was the inspiration for SeniorShield.

SeniorShield is a mobile application that allows cognitively impaired individuals, particularly senior citizens, to stay safe within their homes. The mobile application connects to a Raspberry Pi device and uses facial recognition to alert the cognitively impaired individual whether the person outside is safe or is a stranger. First, via the mobile app, the user adds a certain amount of images of the face of safe, known people to a database that stores the images of the faces of those that are verified to see the cognitively impaired individual. When a camera that is attached to the Raspberry Pi device recognizes a face in the frame, the system attempts to match the face to an individual within the database. If the person outside the home is recognized as a verified individual, an alert is sent via the application to the cognitively impaired individual inside the home, telling them to let the outside person into the home, along with their name. If they are not recognized, then a different alert is sent, telling the person in the home not to let the outside person into the home. Our SeniorShield application ensures that those who are cognitively limited stay safe within the confounds of their own home, in an innovative and secure way.
